feat (curriculum): add oop and encapsulation lectures (#62121)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: curriculum/challenges/english/blocks/lecture-understanding-object-oriented-programming-and-encapsulation/68ca71c3f0ee7ece4ea1e286.md

---
id: 68ca71c3f0ee7ece4ea1e286
title: What is Name Mangling and How Does it Work?
challengeType: 19
dashedName: what-is-name-mangling-and-how-does-it-work
---

# --description--

In a previous lecture, you learned about prefixing attributes with a single underscore and a double underscore.

To remind you of the difference between them, a single underscore is a convention that means the attribute is meant for internal use in the class and should not be directly accessed from outside the class. Double underscore, on the other hand, prevents that attribute from being accessed directly from outside the class.

Here's an example that demonstrates how the two work:

```py
class Example:
    def __init__(self):
        self._internal = 'I can be accessed from outside the class, but should not'
        self.__private = 'You cannot access me directly from outside the class'

obj = Example()

print(obj._internal) # I can be accessed from outside the class, but should not
print(obj.__private)  # AttributeError: 'Example' object has no attribute '__private'
```

> Prefixing an attribute with a double underscore triggers Python’s name mangling process, in which Python internally renames the attribute by adding an underscore and the class name as a prefix, turning `__attribute` into `_ClassName__attribute`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prefixing an attribute with a double underscore triggers Python's name mangling process, in which Python internally renames the attribute by adding an underscore and the class name as a prefix, turning `__attribute` into `_ClassName__attribute`.
```

```py
class Parent:
    def __init__(self):
        self.__data = 'Parent data'

class Child(Parent):
    def __init__(self):
        super().__init__()
        self.__data = 'Child data'

c = Child()
print(c.__dict__) # {'_Parent__data': 'Parent data', '_Child__data': 'Child data'}
```

You can see that both the `Parent` class and the `Child` that inherits from it have their separate `_class__data` attributes. This is made possible with name mangling. Otherwise, the `Child` would have overwritten the Parent data by accident.

Here's what would have happened without allowing Python to do the name mangling, that is if you don't prefix the attributes in both classes with double underscore:

```py
class Parent:
   def __init__(self):
       self.data = 'Parent data'

class Child(Parent):
   def __init__(self):
       super().__init__()
       self.data = 'Child data'

c = Child()
print(c.__dict__)  # {'data': 'Child data'}
```

So, which should you use to prefix attributes between single underscore (`_`) and double underscore (`__`)? It depends. If an attribute is only meant for internal use within the class, stick with a single underscore. 

> But if you’re working with a class that will be inherited, you should use a double underscore so the attribute from the parent doesn’t get overridden. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But if you're working with a class that will be inherited, you should use a double underscore so the attribute from the parent doesn't get overridden. 
```
